Retrofit vs Volley
1) Uses /Code complexity:
Both Retrofit and Volley are easy to use and provides the feature to make network calls both synchronously and asynchronously.
If we talk about the request and response handling than Retrofit treats the Api calls as simple java method calls and it also handle
the Json/Xml parsing itself, while with Volley we have to do some extra code to achieve the same for parsing(need to create a custom 
request).

2) Inbuilt Types :
The data returned by an Api plays vital role in implementation of network call and its handling.It is one of the important parameter
to decide which option we should use.
Volley can capture four types of responses automatically through these requests:
2.1) StringRequest – This type of request converts the response into a String.
2.2) JsonObjectRequest – This type of request and response is automatically converted into a JsonObject                                                                                       
2.3) JsonArrayRequest – This type of request and response is automatically converted into a JSONArray.
2.4) ImageRequest – This type of request converts the response into a decoded bitmap.

Retrofit can parse many other types of responses automatically like:
2.1) Boolean – Web API response needs to be a boolean.
2.2) Integer – Web API response needs to be an integer.
2.3) String – Web API response needs to be in String format.
2.4) Date– Web API response should be Long format date.
2.5) Object – Web API response needs to be in Json object.
2.6) Collections – Web API response needs to be in a String Format.


3) Image Loading:
Volley has an inbuilt support for image loading.It is packaged with a loader a custom view called NetworkImageView which is specially 
designed to download and show images.On the other hand Retrofit does not provide any such feature, Other libraries such as picasso or
glide is recommended to perform image loading.

4) Caching:
Android volley has a very elaborate and flexible caching mechanism.When a request is made through volley first the cache is checked for 
appropriate response if it is found there than it is returned and parsed else network hit is made.Retrofit does not support caching.

5) Retrying Mechanism:
One of the great things about volley is that it supports retries on request timeout. While creating requests with volley, we can set a 
retry policy by using setRetryPolicy method. By default a volley request timeout time is set to 5 seconds. But if you wish to change
the policy, it supports that too. You can specify these parameters according to your needs:
 A) Timeout    B) Number Of Retries   C) Back Off Multiplier
Retrofit does not support any retrying mechanism.But it can be achieved manually by doing some extra code.

6) Request Cancellation:
Both Volley and Retrofit supports request cancellation.

7) Post Requests and Multipart uploads:
Volley supports both post requests and multipart uploads but for post requests we have to convert our java objects to JSONObject.
Also for multipart uploads we have to do some extra code and use some additional classes.
On the other hand Retrofit has full support for Post Requests and Multipart uploads.

8) Request Execution:
One of the most important factors effecting the code complexity is, how a request is executed in your code. In background or in 
foreground? As you may know that Android OS does not allow the network interaction on main thread, it throws a 
NetworkOnMainThreadException. To avoid this you may need to do all the network processing in background. 
As a matter of fact both Android Volley and Retrofit support the background requests. Also both of them are designed in a way,
that you may not have to write huge amounts of code to perform such requests. Although if you wish to do a request in foreground,
even that it possible in both. As there are situations when you may want to block user from going further ahead in your app until a 
response is captured from web API.
•	No automatic parsing in volley
•	Automatic JSON parsing in retrofit
•	Retrofit handles request and response like simple java method calls whereas Volley has to add extra code to achieve the same.
   
